
 Hide
 Wiki Loves Monuments: The world's largest photography competition is now open! Photograph a historic site, learn more about our history, and win prizes.
Welcome to Wikipedia,
the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit.
5,232,990 articles in English
Arts
Biography
Geography
History
Mathematics
Science
Society
Technology
All portals
From today's featured article
US Marine Corps General Victor Krulak
Victor Krulak
The Krulak Mendenhall mission was an American fact-finding expedition sent by President Kennedy's administration to South Vietnam in 1963. It investigated the progress of the war by the South Vietnamese regime and their US military advisers against the Viet Cong insurgency. The mission was led by Victor Krulak (pictured), a major general in the Marine Corps, and Joseph Mendenhall, a senior Foreign Service officer experienced in Vietnamese affairs. The four-day whirlwind trip came in the wake of increasingly strained relations between the United States and South Vietnam. In their submissions Krulak presented an optimistic report on the progress of the war, but Mendenhall presented a bleak picture of military failure and public discontent. Krulak said that the Vietnamese soldiers' efforts in the field would not be affected by the public's unease with President Ngô Đình Diệm's policies. Mendenhall concluded that those policies increased the possibility of religious civil war and led the South Vietnamese to believe that their quality of life would improve under the Viet Cong. The contradictory reports prompted Kennedy to ask, "You two did visit the same country, didn't you?" (Full article...)

Recently featured: Triturus Calutron Wotton (Metropolitan Railway) railway station
Archive By email More featured articles...
Did you know...
=Bradley Cooper in 2009
Bradley Cooper
... that Bradley Cooper (pictured) is the tenth man to be nominated for an Academy Award for acting in three consecutive years?
... that an advance video release from The Black Parade/Living With Ghosts sparked rumors of a possible reunion tour of the American rock band My Chemical Romance?
... that serving as a juvenile court judge motivated William Gant to create the Daviess County Children's Center to provide housing for children in his hometown of Owensboro, Kentucky?
... that following the arrest of Rolf Harris, no one knows the location of his painting, Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II – An 80th Birthday Portrait?
... that new Cornell basketball head coach Brian Earl's Ivy League career games started and three-point field goals records were broken by Cornell's Ryan Wittman?
... that Anatoliy Golitsyn sparked off the Martel affair when he revealed that the French intelligence agencies and armed forces had been deeply penetrated by the KGB?
... that Madison Janssen, a national and world champion as a junior BMX rider, set a world record and won a world championship on a tandem bicycle with skier and athlete Jessica Gallagher?
... that headlines on Reductress have included "We're Piercing My Baby's Tongue" and "How To Friendzone Ethan While He's Still Inside You"?
Recently improved articles Start a new article Nominate an article
In the news
An example of an eastern gorilla
Eastern gorilla
The IUCN reclassifies the giant panda as a vulnerable species, and the eastern gorilla (example pictured) as critically endangered.
Mother Teresa is officially declared a saint by Pope Francis of the Roman Catholic Church.
A bombing at a market in Davao City, Southern Philippines, kills 14 people and injures 70 others.
Islam Karimov, the President of Uzbekistan since 1991, dies in office at the age of 78.
An explosion during preparations for a static fire test results in the loss of the Amos-6 communications satellite and its launch vehicle, Falcon 9 Full Thrust.
At least five people are killed in Libreville, Gabon, during protests following the re-election of President Ali Bongo Ondimba.
Fossils from the Isua Greenstone Belt, Greenland, are found to be the world's oldest, having formed about 3.7 billion years ago.
Ongoing: Kashmir unrest
Recent deaths: Phyllis Schlafly Eileen Younghusband Věra Čáslavská
On this day...
September 7: Independence Day in Brazil (1822)

Archbishop Desmond Tutu
Archbishop Desmond Tutu
1191 – Third Crusade: Forces under Richard I of England defeated Ayyubid troops under Saladin in Arsuf, present-day Israel.
1812 – Napoleonic Wars: The French Grande Armée forced the Russians to withdraw at the Battle of Borodino.
1893 – British expatriates in Italy founded the Genoa Cricket & Athletic Club, today one of Italy's oldest association football clubs.
1936 – The last thylacine died in captivity in Hobart Zoo in Australia.
1986 – Desmond Tutu (pictured) became the first black person to lead the Church of the Province of Southern Africa.
1996 – American rapper Tupac Shakur was fatally shot multiple times in Las Vegas, dying from his injuries six days later.
More anniversaries: September 6 September 7 September 8
Archive By email List of historical anniversaries
Current date: September 7, 2016 (UTC) Reload this page
Today's featured picture
Lambert azimuthal equal-area projection
The Lambert azimuthal equal-area projection is a projection used for mapping a sphere to a disk. It accurately represents area in all regions of the sphere, but it does not accurately represent angles. It is used in scientific disciplines such as geology for plotting the orientations of lines in three-dimensional space, and by the National Atlas of the US in its online map-making application.

Map: Strebe, using Geocart

Recently featured: Viborg Katedralskole Plum Park in Kameido Venezuelan peso
Archive More featured pictures...
Other areas of Wikipedia
Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas.
Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia.
Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English.
Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects.
Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation.
Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies.
Wikipedia's sister projects
Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects:

Commons	Commons
Free media repository	MediaWiki	MediaWiki
Wiki software development	Meta-Wiki	Meta-Wiki
Wikimedia project coordination
Wikibooks	Wikibooks
Free textbooks and manuals	Wikidata	Wikidata
Free knowledge base	Wikinews	Wikinews
Free-content news
Wikiquote	Wikiquote
Collection of quotations	Wikisource	Wikisource
Free-content library	Wikispecies	Wikispecies
Directory of species
Wikiversity	Wikiversity
Free learning materials and activities	Wikivoyage	Wikivoyage
Free travel guide	Wiktionary	Wiktionary
Dictionary and thesaurus
Wikipedia languages
This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001, it currently contains 5,232,990 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below.

More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands 日本語 Polski Русский Svenska Tiếng Việt
More than 250,000 articles: العربية Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català Čeština Euskara فارسی 한국어 Magyar Norsk bokmål Português Română Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe Українська 中文
More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Български Dansk Eesti Ελληνικά English (simple form) Esperanto Galego עברית Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvių Norsk nynorsk Slovenčina Slovenščina ไทย
Complete list of Wikipedias
Navigation menu
Not logged inTalkContributionsCreate accountLog inMain PageTalkReadView sourceView historySearch

Search
Go
Main page
Contents
Featured content
Current events
Random article
Donate to Wikipedia
Wikipedia store
Interaction
Help
About Wikipedia
Community portal
Recent changes
Contact page
Tools
What links here
Related changes
Upload file
Special pages
Permanent link
Page information
Wikidata item
Print/export
Create a book
Download as PDF
Printable version
In other projects
Wikimedia Commons
Meta-Wiki
Wikispecies
Wikibooks
Wikidata
Wikinews
Wikiquote
Wikisource
Wikiversity
Wikivoyage
Languages
Simple English
العربية
Bahasa Indonesia
Bahasa Melayu
Bosanski
Български
Català
Čeština
Dansk
Deutsch
Eesti
Ελληνικά
Español
Esperanto
Euskara
فارسی
Français
Galego
한국어
עברית
Hrvatski
Italiano
ქართული
Latviešu
Lietuvių
Magyar
Nederlands
日本語
Norsk bokmål
Norsk nynorsk
Polski
Português
Română
Русский
Slovenčina
Slovenščina
Српски / srpski
Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
Suomi
Svenska
ไทย
Tiếng Việt
Türkçe
Українська
中文
Complete list
Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.
Privacy policyAbout WikipediaDisclaimersContact WikipediaDevelopersCookie statementMobile viewWikimedia Foundation Powered by MediaWiki